# Russell's Ballot, November 2016

My personal voter guide for the November 2016 election. Consolidated Precinct
49, Yolo County, California.

### Why am I doing this

There's too much stuff on this year's ballot for me to keep it organized in my
head. This repository is my own personal voter guide for November. I'm sharing
them here in case other people are feeling overwhelmed, and maybe wondering
what other people are thinking about these issues.

These are my personal opinions; I'm trying to do what I think is right. Feel
free to submit pull requests if you think I'm wrong about something, but I'll
only pay attention to requests with clear, cogent arguments.

### Candidates

#### President

Hillary Clinton : I had my doubts about her as a candidate, but I think she's
demonstrated that she is capable of leading. 

There are still some open questions about the business with her private email
server and connections with the Clinton Global Initiative, but I have not seen
any convincing evidence of unethical or seriously improper behavior. This is
despite intense, prolonged attention by people who have strong motivation to
find and publicize damaging things about her. Similarly, the case (or rather
cases) for her culpability in the Benghazi looks like a lot of nonsense. As
Secretary of State it was her job to be responsible for any mistakes or errors
in judgment that occurred under her supervision, and it seems to me that she
discharged that duty appropriately. 

As far as her opponent is concerned, the less is said the better.

#### Senate

Kamala Harris : I'm not as sure on this one, but Harris kinda sounds like
Warren-lite. I guess that's cool.

### Propositions

#### 51 School Bonds. Funding for Kâ€“12 School and Community College Facilities. Initiative Statute.

YES : Yay schools!

#### 52 Medi-Cal Hospital Fee Program. Initiative Constitutional Amendment and Statute.


#### 53 Revenue Bonds. Statewide Voter Approval. Initiative Constitutional Amendment.

NO : It's already stupid that we have to vote on every bond.

#### 54 Legislature. Legislation and Proceedings. Initiative Constitutional Amendment and Statute.

#### 55 Tax Extension to Fund Education and Healthcare. Initiative Constitutional Amendment.

#### 56 Cigarette Tax to Fund Healthcare, Tobacco Use Prevention, Research, and Law Enforcement. Initiative Constitutional Amendment and Statute.

#### 57 Criminal Sentences. Parole. Juvenile Criminal Proceedings and Sentencing. Initiative Constitutional Amendment and Statute.

#### 58 English Proficiency. Multilingual Education. Initiative Statute.

YES : English immersion works for some students, but not for all of them. It
has been absurd, and racist, to legislate immersion as the only legal option.
I'm also in favor of improving access to second language classes for English
speakers.

#### 59 Corporations. Political Spending. Federal Constitutional Protections. Legislative Advisory Question.

YES : I'm not really sure why this needs to be on the ballot, but sure.
*Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission* was a bad decision. 

#### 60 Adult Films. Condoms. Health Requirements. Initiative Statute.

NO : This is a workplace safety issue that should be decided among the people
it actually affects. People outside the industry have no legitimate say in it.
It would be a different question if people in the industry were asking for the
public to intervene, but that's not what's going on here. Just the opposite,
actually.

#### 61 State Prescription Drug Purchases. Pricing Standards. Initiative Statute.

#### 62 Death Penalty. Initiative Statute.

YES : There are people who do things that are so terrible that they *deserve*
to die, but actually killing them is a different moral proposition with
ramifications far beyond any judgment about that person. Even if our system
were reliable and fair (which it is not), I think it would still be a bad
idea. The reality of our death penalty system is that it is racist, unfair,
and there is no evidence that it does anything to stop people from committing
murder.

#### 63 Firearms. Ammunition Sales. Initiative Statute.

#### 64 Marijuana Legalization. Initiative Statute.

YES : Obviously.

#### 65 Carryout Bags. Charges. Initiative Statute.

#### 66 Death Penalty. Procedures. Initiative Statute.

NO : This measure strips people of their right to due process so that it will
be more convenient for the state to kill them.

#### 67 Ban on Single-Use Plastic Bags. Referendum.

YES : Plastic bags are useful and convenient, but I've seen firsthand how
destructive they are.